README.md, before:

# UK Poisons Information Database - Desktop App

[![tests status](https://gitlab.com/juicy-media-ltd/ukpid/ukpid-desktop-app/badges/main/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.com/juicy-media-ltd/ukpid/ukpid-desktop-app/commits/main)

## Introduction

This is the desktop application for the UK Poisons Information Database (UKPID), a service provided by
the [National Poisons Information Service (NPIS)](https://www.npis.org/).

The main role of NPIS is to advise NHS healthcare professionals on the diagnosis, treatment and care of poisoned
patients across the UK. The major workload of the NPIS is to advise hospital emergency departments, however minor
injuries units and primary care services are also significant users of the service – the latter involving NHS advice
services (NHS 111, NHS 24 and NHS Direct) to a large extent. Telephone calls are answered by Specialists in Poisons
Information (SPIs). Data from telephone enquiries to the NPIS and the advice given are stored in UKPID.

This is an Electron-based application. It uses [Electron Forge](https://www.electronforge.io/) to scaffold, build and
publish the app. Vue.js provides a framework for the UI. Vite is used to bundle it all.

This frontend application connects to
the [Laravel-based backend application](https://gitlab.com/juicy-media-ltd/ukpid/ukpid-backend).

## Development

You should run this project natively on your computer. Not inside WSL or Docker. While we will be developing this
application to be cross-platform to work on Windows and macOS, NPIS use Windows-based machines. WSL and Docker will both
run a Linux version of this application which isn't desirable when it comes to dealing with platform-specific
intricacies.

### Prerequisites

You must have the following setup and ready to go before working on this project:

- Node.js
  - On Windows, use [NVM for Windows](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows)
  - On Mac, use [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)
  - Check the `.nvmrc` file for the version of Node in use on this project. On Windows you'll need to
    run `nvm use <version>` to switch to it, on Mac you can just run `nvm use`.
- [PhpStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/phpstorm/) **2023.2 or later**
  - The `.idea` directory is intentionally committed to this repository, as it stores IDE configurations that will
    assist with the development of this application.

### Setup

1. Run `npm i` to install node modules
   - Add yourself to the contributors listed in the package.json file!
2. Run `npm run start` to start the application for development

## Documentation

### Application Documentation

While your code should be clean, obvious, and documented through docblocks and comments as appropriate, it may be
necessary to write documentation to detail processes, features, and anything else you deem relevant as you contribute to
this application. If you do this, you should write it in a Markdown file in the `/docs` directory. **You must** also
familiarise yourself with the contents of the `/docs` directory before contributing to this project.

## Contributing

### CSS

This application makes use of Vue's Single-File components. As such, the styling for a component should be included in a
style tag within the component file. The CSS should be scoped, which allows us to write CSS specific to the component
without needing to worry about class naming schemes.

On the rare occasion you need to write a global style, use the `base.scss` file.

### NPM

This project is configured to install npm packages as dev dependencies by default. The reason for this being that dev
dependencies are excluded from the packaged application. These dependencies are either exclusively used for testing, or
are packages used by the renderer which are bundled up by Vite during the build process. If we were to include these
dependencies are they are then the app package grows by about 500mb. They aren't necessary and saving them as dev
dependencies by default removes the burden of having to pass the -D flag.

For packages used by node in the main process, you'll need to pass `--save-prod` to the npm install command to save
these as production dependencies which are included in the packaged app. If you encounter a module not found error when
running a packaged build the cause is probably this.

### Testing

This project uses [WebdriverIO](https://webdriver.io/)(WDIO) for e2e and unit testing.

You must write tests to accompany the code you write and the features you implement. The majority of these tests are
likely to be e2e tests to verify the entire user flow of the feature you implemented. Where the code you
write can be tested in isolation, you should write a unit test.

Tests are run automatically on merge requests, commits to the `main` branch, and on builds. Tests must pass for the
merge request to be accepted and for the build to start.

#### WDIO

WDIO runs against a built application, so before you run WDIO, you should build the application for testing by
running `npm run package:test`.

WDIO can then be run with `npm run test`.

### Code quality

This project uses several tools to enforce code standards and style.

There's always debates to had over which code style is better, but they're not really important. These tools enforce one
style and strive solve the issue of conflicts between developers. You might not like it, but just go along with it!

#### Prettier

[Prettier](https://prettier.io) is installed and configured to enforce an opinionated code standard
for JS, CSS, JSON and Markdown files in this project. You should ensure Prettier is run before you make a commit.

PhpStorm is configured to run Prettier on save and on reformat. You should configure PhpStorm to use the node.js
interpreter provided by nvm for this project (Settings/Preferences > Languages > node.js).

You can also use `npx prettier . --write` to run Prettier manually.

#### ESLint and Stylelint

ESLint and Stylelint are also installed and configured on this project to enforce an opinionated code standard for JS
and CSS files.

PhpStorm should highlight errors in code.

You can use `npm run lint:js` to run ESLint, `npm run lint:style` to run
Stylelint, or `npm run lint` to run both along with a Prettier check.

### Writing content

There'll be times when you need to write user-facing messages such as status and error messages. Follow the spirit of
the [NHS's content style](https://service-manual.nhs.uk/content/how-we-write) when doing this. Keep it clear and
concise. Use punctuation and a spell checker.

### Review process

No code should be committed to the main branch without being submitted and reviewed as a merge request.

Merge requests must be reviewed and approved by a lead developer. CI/CD Pipelines are configured to run Laravel tests
and code quality tests on the code being submitted for merge. These pipelines must succeed before the merge request can
be approved. To save time and reduce the usage of pipeline minutes, it is recommended you run these tools locally before
marking your MR as ready for review.

Commit message:

Fixes an issue that prevents the application from authenticating on initial launch

README.md, after:

# UK Poisons Information Database - Desktop App

[![tests status](https://gitlab.com/juicy-media-ltd/ukpid/ukpid-desktop-app/badges/main/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.com/juicy-media-ltd/ukpid/ukpid-desktop-app/commits/main)

## Introduction

This is the desktop application for the UK Poisons Information Database (UKPID), a service provided by
the [National Poisons Information Service (NPIS)](https://www.npis.org/).

The main role of NPIS is to advise NHS healthcare professionals on the diagnosis, treatment and care of poisoned
patients across the UK. The major workload of the NPIS is to advise hospital emergency departments, however minor
injuries units and primary care services are also significant users of the service – the latter involving NHS advice
services (NHS 111, NHS 24 and NHS Direct) to a large extent. Telephone calls are answered by Specialists in Poisons
Information (SPIs). Data from telephone enquiries to the NPIS and the advice given are stored in UKPID.

This is an Electron-based application. It uses [Electron Forge](https://www.electronforge.io/) to scaffold, build and
publish the app. Vue.js provides a framework for the UI. Vite is used to bundle it all.

This frontend application connects to
the [Laravel-based backend application](https://gitlab.com/juicy-media-ltd/ukpid/ukpid-backend).

## Development

You should run this project natively on your computer. Not inside WSL or Docker. While we will be developing this
application to be cross-platform to work on Windows and macOS, NPIS use Windows-based machines. WSL and Docker will both
run a Linux version of this application which isn't desirable when it comes to dealing with platform-specific
intricacies.

### Prerequisites

You must have the following setup and ready to go before working on this project:

- Node.js
  - On Windows, use [NVM for Windows](https://github.com/coreybutler/nvm-windows)
  - On Mac, use [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)
  - Check the `.nvmrc` file for the version of Node in use on this project. On Windows you'll need to
    run `nvm use <version>` to switch to it, on Mac you can just run `nvm use`.
- [PhpStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/phpstorm/) **2023.2 or later**
  - The `.idea` directory is intentionally committed to this repository, as it stores IDE configurations that will
    assist with the development of this application.

### Setup

1. Copy the `.env.development.example` file to `.env.developement`
1. Run `npm i` to install node modules
   - Add yourself to the contributors listed in the package.json file!
1. Run `npm run start` to start the application for development

## Outdated Optimize Dep Error

Occasionally, the main window of the application may launch with a blank screen and
an `net::ERR_ABORTED 504 (Outdated Optimize Dep)` error in the console. This is an issue with Vite that does not
currently appear to have a permanent fix, though this is often resolved by quitting the process with `ctrl+c` and
rerunning `npm run start`.

## Documentation

### Application Documentation

While your code should be clean, obvious, and documented through docblocks and comments as appropriate, it may be
necessary to write documentation to detail processes, features, and anything else you deem relevant as you contribute to
this application. If you do this, you should write it in a Markdown file in the `/docs` directory. **You must** also
familiarise yourself with the contents of the `/docs` directory before contributing to this project.

## Contributing

### CSS

This application makes use of Vue's Single-File components. As such, the styling for a component should be included in a
style tag within the component file. The CSS should be scoped, which allows us to write CSS specific to the component
without needing to worry about class naming schemes.

On the rare occasion you need to write a global style, use the `base.scss` file.

### NPM

This project is configured to install npm packages as dev dependencies by default. The reason for this being that dev
dependencies are excluded from the packaged application. These dependencies are either exclusively used for testing, or
are packages used by the renderer which are bundled up by Vite during the build process. If we were to include these
dependencies are they are then the app package grows by about 500mb. They aren't necessary and saving them as dev
dependencies by default removes the burden of having to pass the -D flag.

For packages used by node in the main process, you'll need to pass `--save-prod` to the npm install command to save
these as production dependencies which are included in the packaged app. If you encounter a module not found error when
running a packaged build the cause is probably this.

### Testing

This project uses [WebdriverIO](https://webdriver.io/)(WDIO) for e2e and unit testing.

You must write tests to accompany the code you write and the features you implement. The majority of these tests are
likely to be e2e tests to verify the entire user flow of the feature you implemented. Where the code you
write can be tested in isolation, you should write a unit test.

Tests are run automatically on merge requests, commits to the `main` branch, and on builds. Tests must pass for the
merge request to be accepted and for the build to start.

#### WDIO

WDIO runs against a built application, so before you run WDIO, you should build the application for testing by
running `npm run package:test`.

WDIO can then be run with `npm run test`.

### Code quality

This project uses several tools to enforce code standards and style.

There's always debates to had over which code style is better, but they're not really important. These tools enforce one
style and strive solve the issue of conflicts between developers. You might not like it, but just go along with it!

#### Prettier

[Prettier](https://prettier.io) is installed and configured to enforce an opinionated code standard
for JS, CSS, JSON and Markdown files in this project. You should ensure Prettier is run before you make a commit.

PhpStorm is configured to run Prettier on save and on reformat. You should configure PhpStorm to use the node.js
interpreter provided by nvm for this project (Settings/Preferences > Languages > node.js).

You can also use `npx prettier . --write` to run Prettier manually.

#### ESLint and Stylelint

ESLint and Stylelint are also installed and configured on this project to enforce an opinionated code standard for JS
and CSS files.

PhpStorm should highlight errors in code.

You can use `npm run lint:js` to run ESLint, `npm run lint:style` to run
Stylelint, or `npm run lint` to run both along with a Prettier check.

### Writing content

There'll be times when you need to write user-facing messages such as status and error messages. Follow the spirit of
the [NHS's content style](https://service-manual.nhs.uk/content/how-we-write) when doing this. Keep it clear and
concise. Use punctuation and a spell checker.

### Review process

No code should be committed to the main branch without being submitted and reviewed as a merge request.

Merge requests must be reviewed and approved by a lead developer. CI/CD Pipelines are configured to run Laravel tests
and code quality tests on the code being submitted for merge. These pipelines must succeed before the merge request can
be approved. To save time and reduce the usage of pipeline minutes, it is recommended you run these tools locally before
marking your MR as ready for review.
